Our simulation shows a night scene with hail falling from the sky and melting into the ground, fruits falling from trees and decomposing into the ground, and the bubbles that arise from the ground that show the nitrogen cycle resulting from the fruit decomposition.

Vaishnavi Kashyap - I completely changed what I had initially proposed to do in the project progress report. I decided to implement a simulation of nitrogen bubbles (class Bubble) that start at the bottom of the screen and shine, and slowly decrease in brightness as they move up the screen. They float around towards the top of screen (physics-based simulation) because they are going against gravity and then disappear/pop, starting the cycle all over again. The particles also constantly change colors to capture the “rainbow sheen” of bubbles. The two forces implemented are gravity (added vectors in the x and y direction to guide the particles) and a spring force (decrease in speed as they move up the screen.)

Danish Tharvani - I created the hail class. In the hail class, a hand-designed object using Paint to resemble a piece of hail was created and stored in the .svg format. The class and actions include pieces of hail, of different sizes and heights in the "sky", that fall down to the ground under the force of gravity. Once the pieces of hail hit the ground, they bounce up and down under a dampening spring force. Once the pieces of hail settle, they move down the screen and replicate the illusion of the hail melting.

Aimilee Tran - I created the fruit tree class. In the fruit tree class, I've created a PShape that assembles the tree with the subclass of the tree being the oranges that fall from the tree. The oranges bounce on the ground and slowly bounce lower and lower every time much as they would in reality. The oranges do sink into the ground, however oranges do decompose into the ground if left untouched on the ground for too long. The animation is physics based as it imposes the laws of gravity and friction that makes the fruit bounce lower and lower every time as the impact of the fall and air are an outside forces working against the initial speed of the fruit falling from the tree's branches. I had troubles with getting the fruit falling animation to loop after hitting the ground, however I found a way to make it work. In addition, our animation slowed greatly due to the added PShape however I found out that it was due to a placement error in the code and I was able to overcome the issue very easily with the help of my group mates.